so you see a healthy well-built guy
perhaps you'd like to have the same
muscular appearance but where should you
start the answer is with the traps
muscles working on these will increase
the size of your back and neck and I
know a few exercises to get you started
traps are a part of the trapezius or
trapezoid muscle developing them can
completely change the appearance of your
back if you work on them they can form a
distinct and attractive triangle shape
running from your neck to your shoulders
the good news is you don't need to train
hard in the gym to get this our body
doesn't use the trapezius too much from
day to day it doesn't get much passive
training unlike your calf and forearm
muscles that are used almost all the
time
so serious work isn't required to build
it up working the traps also improves
the strength of your hands our hands are
like an elevator that is constantly
lifting things if the elevator has a
solid support we can lift really heavy
stuff so to start with you need to do a
warm-up bend your head forward back and
then sideways do this for a minute
then make circular movements with your
shoulders lift them up and down bend
forward and back the warm-up should take
you around 2 to 5 minutes the first and
simplest exercise is the farmers carry
this helps to develop both your strength
and endurance you can do it at home or
even every time you go shopping at the
supermarket the bags or dumbbells in
your hands should weigh the same keep
your shoulders and back straight during
the exercise because slouching will
prevent the development of your back and
forth so take a dumbbell or a shopping
bag in each hand holding them at your
sides exert your core and back to hold a
strong upright posture take measured
steps controlling the weight and keep
your hands at the same level 1 to 5
minutes of walking like this will be
good for you
the next exercise is the single arm
dumbbell upright row when you do this
exercise it's very important to remember
that the movements always start from the
elbow
imagine that you're a puppet with
strings attached to your elbows when
you're doing this exercise it should
look like someone is pulling strings to
move your arms stay upright and don't
bend your back at all you need to keep
this position even if you feel tired
raise your hands one at a time do five
to ten lifts with each hand repeat the
exercise two or three times face pulls
it's not what you think you can do this
exercise with a cable machine at a gym
or at home with a resistance band face
pools are a really effective way to work
your lower traps they're also useful if
you want to develop strong shoulders
hold your resistance band at the level
of your eyes while the handles are
rubber bands in each hand squeeze your
shoulder blades and pull your hands
toward your ears keep your elbows high
and don't lean forward hold this
position for a second and slowly move
your arms back into the starting
position carefully control every
movement do this seven to twelve times
perform 3 sets barbell shrug it develops
the upper portion of your trapezius
which is responsible for lifting your
shoulder blades
you need a barbell with an overhand grip
your hands should be just further than
shoulder-width apart and the bar should
hang at arm's length in front of your
torso keep your back straight lean
forward slightly at the hips and bend
your knees a little lift your shoulders
toward your ears as high as possible
hold your arms straight maintain the
pose then return to the starting
position do three sets of seven to
twelve reps each
dumbbell lateral raise this exercise
really works your middle deltoid muscle
your upper traps get a good workout too
they act as stabilizers in this exercise
and help you raise the weight it's very
important not to rotate your upper arms
inward when in the up position the way
to think about this is to imagine you're
pouring out a pitch of water grip your
dumbbells in both hands and hold them at
arm's length neck to your sides stand up
straight
lift your arms to your sides up to the
shoulder level with slightly bent elbows
lower your arms and repeat five to seven
times do two or three sets overhead
barbell shrugs now with this one you
don't just hold the weight above your
head but shrug while doing so adding the
overhead barbell shrug to your workout
can lead to better posture lift the
barbell above your head hold it in an
underhand grip it's about twice your
shoulder width
keep your arms completely straight and
your feet shoulder width apart lock your
elbows and freeze take a deep breath
exhale and shrug your shoulders then
lift them to your ears as close as
possible do seven to twelve reps and
return your arms to the starting
position do the next exercise only if
you're certain that you're strong enough
snatch grip barbell high pull your traps
mid-back rhomboids deltoids hamstrings
glutes and lower back are all worked
during the barbell high pole this is a
fast powerful movement it also provides
energy and power to the lower body
muscles you need to apply a wide grip
that's twice your shoulder width this
will get your traps working when you
first try the exercise use light discs
on the barbell hold the bar in a wide
grip and let it hang at arm's length in
front of your body your hands should be
a few inches from the barbells distt
bend at the hips and squat down with
your lower back arch now stand up
bending your elbows and raising your
upper arms the goal is to lift the
barbell fast as high as you can you
probably won't be able to rise up on
your toes by the end but that's okay
then return to the starting position
repeat this five to seven times well
developed traps will have a very
impressive triangular shape but always
remember to be careful damage to the
trapezius happens only rarely
sometimes people injure themselves when
they try to do the exercises using too
much weight that's why you need to
select your weight level very carefully
it's better to lift a lighter barbell
than to tear a muscle by accident and
never forget to warm up good luck
[Music]